It is Samsung Galaxy S20 time
and also its S20 plus time.
And now it's also S20 Ultra time.
See these are Samsung's flagships,
they're the big contenders
for the best Android smartphone that you can get.
They're all 5G phones,
they all have 120 Hz refresh rate screens,
and they all have brand new camera systems.
But the camera systems and each of these
are a little bit different from each other.
And frankly, so are some of the specs,
it's a little bit complicated in the details,
but it is super obvious at the top level,
which one you are going to want to get.
The ultra
or maybe the S20 because it's small
and you can get it in pink.
Or maybe you just want the S20+
because it's kinda the in between phone.
Okay, whatever let's just get into it.
Alright, first things first,
why are these called the S20 phones instead of the S11
which comes after you know, the S10
Samsung's answer is that they're a new generation
especially in the camera system,
but I don't know I just look like phones to me.
They look good,
I think the camera bump which is rectangular now
it looks just fine.
I do think they're way too reflective
and they pick up fingerprints and
I am a little bit bummed with the headphone jack,
but they look like Galaxy phones,
which means that they look good and they feel high quality.
And Samsung is right,
that there really are new interesting camera systems here.
So let's talk about them.
So all three phones have a standard three lens setup
that you're probably used to by now.
There's a regular wide angle lens,
there's a telephoto lens and there's an ultra wide lens.
Plus there's a time of flight sensor on the ultra.
But what's new this year
is that Samsung is going for a high megapixel count.
So on the S20 and the S20+
it's 64 megapixels,
and on the ultra it's 108 megapixels
and usually when you see a really high megapixel count,
that means that the phone is bad,
it means it's bad.
They couldn't make a good camera
and so they just compensated
by throwing a lot of megapixels at the specsheet
and hope you don't notice.
But Samsung says its doing
a bunch of image computation levels megapixel
so that they actually belong on a flagship.
Alright, so let's focus on the Samsung S20 Ultra.
It has a folded zoom lens,
which means that the light comes in
it hits a prism then it goes across the phone
to hit the sensor, which is a lot like the periscope lens
on those Huawei phones.
It doesn't make the phone kind of thick though, I think,
but it's not that big a deal.
What that folded lens system gets you as a 4X optical zoom.
And then Samsung claims you can get up to 10X
with lossless and then on top of that
you can go all the way up to 100X zoom
with some sensor cropping.
But how does all this work?
Well, Samsung says that it's binning
it can take nine pixels from the sensor
and combine them into one pixel
using hardware that's built right into the chip,
which means that they come out
as regular 12 megapixel photos by default.
Samsung also says that that binning can help
with a low light performance on the telephoto and
I don't really know if the optical science
adds up there yet, but yeah,
we'll see what happens we actually
have to use these things for real.
Anyway, as you zoom in on the systems
the whole system switches between some combination of
binning and then sensor cropping and then adjustment
for handshake and so on so forth.
And in our hands on tests,
which were admittedly in a controlled setting,
it seemed pretty good.
Now, I don't know if the results are gonna be as good
as Samsung says, but I do know that I love
the interface that Samsung made for the zoom,
you can tap on little buttons to zoom right into
the amount that you want.
And when you get zoomed way in,
it shows a little thumbnail of the entire scene
so you can see exactly what you're zoomed in on
so that you can aim at it exactly right.
It's really neat.
Now because this is Samsung,
there's a bunch of new camera stuff
because Samsung loves throwing features at the camera.
They claim that their night mode is way better now
that it uses up to 30 shots
to build the final night mode image.
It can also shoot at 8K now at 24 frames per second
and you can edit that 8K footage right on the device
but my favorite feature is this thing called SINGLE TAKE.
See you know, Samsung has those kazillion camera features
but you never know which one you should actually pick
so what you can do is go into single take
just hit the shutter wait 10 seconds
and then Samsung just kinda does you know
like all of them, it shows you a collage when it's done.
And there's like a portrait and a wide angle
and maybe a little, you know, gif that it makes
and a movie and whatever else.
And then you could just pick the one
you actually wanna save from it.
It's really kinda great.
Alright, so that's the camera system,
you got 12 megapixels, and you got 108 whatever.
It's a lot.
It's pretty complicated.
And we really do have to test all of it.
I'm looking forward to doing that.
Another thing that's complicated, though, are the specs.
Like there are a lot of specs, look at all these specs.
Yeah, sorry, that is, in fact, a lot of specs.
So here we are, we're gonna show you them again.
But we're not gonna have time to get into all of them.
We're just gonna hit a few.
So first thing they all have 120 Hz refresh rate displays,
and they also can read your touches at 240 hertz.
It is just a switch though
they didn't do any of this dynamic stuff.
Were its trying to change the refresh rate on the fly.
It's just 60 or 120.
And when you're at 120, Samsung says it's about a 10% hit
on your battery life.
They started 12 gigabytes of RAM
and 128 gigabytes of storage,
and they have micro SD.
They of course have a Snapdragon 865.
And there is a fingerprint sensor underneath the screen.
Of course, they all use Samsung's new interface.
It's called One UI 2.
And I still think it's pretty good.
There are some new software features
that I really think are kind of neat, though.
They have a new direct share thing that's, you know,
exclusive to Galaxy phones.
It's basically like Wi Fi direct.
They have this free service
where you can upload up to five gigabytes of data a day
to a cloud service and just share a link out
so you don't have to fuss with getting it under
some other cloud service.
And they have this thing that they call Bluetooth sharing,
where if you don't want to have to have a friend pair
to the Bluetooth in your car.
You can have them pair the Bluetooth on your phone
and then a Wi Fi directs from their phone to your phone
and then their audio plays in your car
and it's just wackadoo it's kinda neat.
Anyway, as for the rest of the specs,
you can just assume that there's like
a good better best cadence between these three phones.
So for example, the S20 has 5G but only the S20+
and the S20 Ultra support millimeter wave.
screen sizes are 6.2 inch, 6.7 inch and 6.9 inch
battery sizes are 4,000, 4,500 and 5,000
the S20 Ultra can get up to 16 gigs of RAM
if you spring for the 512 gigs of storage option.
Also there's like 25 watt charging and 45 watt charging
depending on which one you get, etc, etc, etc.
Bottom line these are spec beasts,
that's what they're for and they cost a lot too.
They start at 999 99 the plus starts at 1199 99.
And the ultra starts at 1399 99.
And if you wanna get the 16 gigs of RAM
and 512 gigs of storage, that is 1600 dollars.
Pre orders start February 21st and they ship on March six.
And I know this is a lot, It is a lot of specs.
It is a lot of megapixels
and it's a lot of money.
Even for Samsung, this is a lot like maximum a lot.
So I'm actually really looking forward to reviewing these
like a lot.
Hey thanks for watching.
Really appreciate it.
There's a lot more videos coming from
Samsung's unpacked event so stay tuned for those
and if you wanna click on something
you should click on theverge.com/newsletters
'cause I send one out every day.